.TH EuXLisp 1 "13 June 2010"
.SH NAME
euxlisp \- EuLisp Level 0 interpreter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B euxlisp
[
.I command-line switches
] [
.I files ...\&
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I euxlisp
is a small EuLisp Level 0 interpeter, based on David Michael Betz'
xscheme.  Mostly compliant with the EuLisp definition 0.99, with a few
Schemeisms still present.
.SS OPTIONS
The following options are of general interest:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-h "\fR,\fP " \-\-help
display usage information.
.TP
.BI \-q "\fR,\fP " \-\-quiet
quiet mode: print no messages, prompts or values. Useful when using
.I euxlisp
as a filter or other agent.
.TP
.BI \-n "\fR,\fP " \-\-no\-lisp\-image
do not read in the initial Lisp image.
.TP
.BI \-N "\fR,\fP " \-\-no\-sys\-calls
disables \fBsystem\fP and various other function calls.
.TP
.BI \-s " \fIfile\fR,\fP " \--script " \fIfile"
read and execute script \fIfile\fP, skipping its first line.
Useful for
.B #!/bin/euxlisp --script
and the like in shell scripts.
.TP
.BI \-m " \fIfile\fR,\fP " \--module " \fIfile"
read and execute module from \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.BI \-i " \fIfile\fR,\fP " \--image " \fIfile"
read the given image \fIfile\fP rather than the default.
.TP
.BI \-t "\fR,\fP " \-\-trace
switch on byte-code level tracing.
.PP
Other args are not interpreted, but are available though
.B getarg
(see below)

.SH FEATURES
The module that contains all the useful stuff (e.g.,
\fBcons\fP and friends) is called \fBlevel-0\fP: if you import no modules,
you get nothing at all, not even special forms. So a typical module looks like
\fB
.nf

(defmodule foo
   (import (level-0 ...))

   ...
)
.fi
\fP
and should be in a file named
.B foo.em

There are keywords (unbindable, unassignable, self-evaluating symbols), e.g.,
\fB
.nf

(defclass foo ()
  ((a default: 99
      keyword: a:
      accessor: foo-a))
  constructor: (make-foo a:))
.fi
\fP

Try
.B "(describe xx)"
for information on object
\fBxx\fP,
and
.B "(class-hierarchy)"
to see all the classes.

Some useful other tools include:
.TP
.B getenv
and
.B putenv
to get and set environment variables.
.TP
.B getarg
to get \fIn\fPth arg passed to
.B euxlisp.
.TP
.B exit
to leave
.B euxlisp
.PP
In case of error, there is a simple error loop. When in the loop type
.B help:
for extra information.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
.TP
.B EU_IMAGE_PATH
a colon-separated list of directory names: where to look for the initial EuLisp
image (generally named
\euxlisp.wks\fP).
.B euxlisp
searches these first, then a system-installed path.
.br
.TP
.B EU_MODULE_PATH
a colon-separated list of directory names: where to look for EuLisp
modules.
.B euxlisp
searches these first, then a system-installed path (which
generally contains the current directory).

.SH BUGS
If
.B euxlisp
starts up in module
.B root
then it is a good bet that it couldn't find the image file
.B euxlisp.wks

There are a few differences between
.B euxlisp
and the EuLisp Level 0 definition,
but as both are still changing it's futile to list them.

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fIThe latest EuLisp definition\fP PDF available from:
.B "http://henry.github.com/EuLisp/Doc/EuLisp-0.991/eulisp.pdf"
.TP
Online HTML version available from:
.B "http://henry.github.com/EuLisp/Doc/EuLisp-0.991/html/eulisp.html"
.TP
EuLisp and EuXLisp Introduction:
.B "file://EuLispIntroRef.html"
.TP
Original Euscheme Starter Notes:
.B "http://www.bath.ac.uk/~masrjb/Sources/eunotes.html"
.TP
Also useful:
.B "http://www.bath.ac.uk/~masjap/EuLisp/eulisp.html"
.TP
\fILisp and Symbolic Computation\fP, special edition on EuLisp,
vol. 6, nos. 1-2, August 1993, R Kessler, ed.
